# KBase Elasticsearch Indexer

This is a persistent process written in Python that consumes Kafka events generated by the KBase Workspace server, and publishes documents to be indexed back to another kafka topic, to be consumed by the [elasticsearch-writer](https://github.com/kbaseIncubator/elasticsearch_writer).

## Development

Start the servers:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

Run the tests (servers must be running):

```sh
make test
```

## Admininstration

Some CLI admin tools are provided in `src/admin_tools/main.py`.

Running `python main.py` will give you a list of available commands.

### Deployment

Build the image:

```sh
IMAGE_NAME=kbase/index_runner2:{VERSION} sh hooks/build
```

Push to docker hub

```sh
docker push kbase/index_runner2:{VERSION}
```

### Project anatomy

* The main process and entrypoint for the app lives in `./src/index_runner/main.py`
* The workspace events consumer is in `./src/index_runner/workspace_consumer.py`
* The elasticsearch updates consumer is in `./src/index_runner/elasticsearch_consumer.py`

## KBase Search Stack

* [Index Runner](https://github.com/kbaseIncubator/index_runner_deluxe) - Kafka consumer to construct indexes and documents.
* [Elasticsearch Writer](https://github.com/kbaseIncubator/elasticsearch_writer<Paste>) - Kafka consumer to bulk update documents in ES.
* [Search API](https://github.com/kbaseIncubator/search_api_deluxe) - HTTP API for performing search queries.
* [Search Config](https://github.com/kbaseIncubator/search_config) - Global search configuration.

## Creating a SKD Indexer application

The index_runner has the ability to use sdk applications for indexing.

All apps should use the following as input:
```
{
    string obj_data_path
    string ws_info_path
    string obj_data_v1_path
}
```
Each of the above are json file paths that contain relevant object data (written to disk to avoid using too much memory)

The output for the indexer applications is expected to be written to a file. Each line of the returned file corresponds to one document in elasticsearch to be indexed and should be valid json.

```python
{
	'doc': {
		# this dictionary contains all the fields you want indexed in elasticsearch
		'key1': value,
		'key2': value
	},
}
```

If an object should result in more than one elasticsearch document, the `sub_type` and `sub_id` fields must be specified for all but the 'parent' document. The `sub_type` field should be the same for all the sub objects and should only contain alphanumeric characters excluding whitespaces. The `sub_id` field, MUST be unique for each subobject. If the `sub_id` field is not unique, only one of the objects will be indexed.
```python
{
	'doc': {#...
	},
	'sub_type': "sub_type",
	'sub_id': "UNIQID123" # unique id for sub object,
}
```

The Resulting output file should look something like:
```
{"doc": {"key1": 1, "key2": "string of interest"}}
{"doc": {"sub_key1": 3, "sub_key2": "value"}, "sub_type": "feature", "sub_id": "LKJCID"}
{"doc": {"sub_key1": 6, "sub_key2": "different value"}, "sub_type": "feature", "sub_id": "OIMQME"}
```
The return value from the SDK indexer application should contain the filepath. NOTE: all other output, is not utilized.
```
{
	"filepath": "/path/to/file.json",
	...
}
```

NOTE: The application must be registered, just as any other KBase application, in the KBase environment you would like it to be utilized in.

## Registering your SDK Indexer application

To Register your application with the KBase Index Runner, you must open a pull request against the [Search Config](https://github.com/kbaseIncubator/search_config). In the `config.yaml` the `sdk_indexer_apps` section is a mapping from KBase object types (excluding version) to their appropriate sdk applications and corresponding functions within those SDK applications.
```
  KBaseMatrices.MetaboliteMatrix:
    sdk_app: kbasematrices_indexer # required
    sdk_func: run_kbasematrices_indexer # required
    sub_obj_index: attribute_mapping # required for indexers that have subobjects
```
A Elasticsearch type mapping is also required. This can be added to the `mappings` field. Several examples are available in the `config.yaml` file.
